DM-28234: Edits and review (#3)
lsst-dm/dmtn-165: DMTN-165.tex

A night of observing would produce a total volume of lightweight alerts of 2\,GB.
In contrast to the full alert stream, which is $\sim$ 820\,GB per night, it is easy to imagine a user accessing the full alert stream from their laptop, or perhaps connecting a small or ad-hoc automated telescope to it.
We believe that democratizing access to the alert stream will enable some of the most creative uses of the stream and ensure innovative use by scientists.

Users can fetch the full alert packet, but these requests would be rate limited to keep them from unfairly consuming all available bandwidth.
Choosing an appropriate value for the rate limit is a policy decision which must balance the science benefits of letting users access full packets against providing access to more users.

For example, the rate limit could be set to permit users to get all data as long as they spread their requests out.
To keep up with an event generation rate of 10,000 events per 39 second exposure, users would need to retrieve 270 events per second; at 80\,KB per event, this would require 164 Mbps of bandwidth per user.
At this volume, we could support 60 users within the 10 Gbps bandwidth budget.

> Tighter rate limits would permit more users, but those users would have to choose to receive only a subset of the full alert payloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tighter rate limits would permit more users, but those users would have to choose to receive only a subset of the available full alerts.
```

Reviewer: I suggest a slight change here--otherwise it could be interpreted as allowing users to grab portions of all alerts, which I don't think we're planning.

Author: Very good point.

The discussion above focused on science users.
Most (though perhaps not all) community alert brokers will still wish to retrieve all available alerts.

> In this design, brokers can simply be viewed as users with very high rate-limits, sufficient to allow transmitting all alerts out of the Data Facility within a shortlatency window.

Reviewer: I'd like to retain the original wording here--we will have an easier time if we can (truthfully, of course!) argue that we're not relaxing requirements in the new design.

Author: Sure, that works. The reason I put this in was that the 60-second latency window is not tight enough for anyone receiving the full stream of alerts. For them, they need all alerts every exposure, so they only have 37 seconds. If we take 60 seconds to send each exposure's data, we'll never catch up.

But on reflection, I suppose I'm wrong; I'm describing throughput, rather than latency. Anyway, yeah, I'll revert.
